Q1) What is Tosca?
    Tosca is a software tool for the automated execution of functional and regression software testing.
    It supports graphical user interface,application programming interface and command-line interface. 

2)  What are the advantages of using Tosca ?
      Script less automation.
      Model based automation,we do not need to write framework for this.It is already present.
      Can be integrated with HP ALM, can run selenium scripts.
      Test management and manual testing is also present.
      Reusability of assets and copy-paste features for test cases and modules.
      Tosca provides its own query language same as SQL called as TQL.
      
3)  What are the various ways to identify objects in Tosca Testsuite?
    Identify by properties
    Identify by Anchor
    Identify by image
    Identify by index
    
 4) Explain the types of errors available in Tosca? 
 
    Verification-Failure:This occurs when verification does not provide the expected results.In simple words, the value expected by test case specification does 
    not match the value given by the test object.
    User Abort    : Abort of the test execution by the user.
    Dialog-Failure: The application wants to get control of either that doesn’t exist or is not in an operational state.
    
    
5) What are the main components of Tosca?

   The major components available in Tosca are:
   Tosca Commander. ( Actual work is done here)
   Tosca Executor. ( Test cases ffrom commander is executed here)
   Tosca XScan (Tosca Wizard) ( Used to scan the application and Create Module)
   Test Repository.
   
6) How to run Tests using ExecutionLists?
   ExecutionLists in Tosca can be executed either by pressing the F6 key in the execution section or by selecting the Run option from the context menu.
   
7) How does Indentify by anchor works in tosca testsuite ?
  Identify by Anchor means Identify the object/ element uniquely by taking the refrence of other uniquely identified object/element.
  
8) How to Take the screenshot in TOSCA?
   By using standrad module TBOX TakesScreenshot.
   Using dokusnapper ( Enable through TOSCA Setting).It is used to take screenshot at runtime execution.
   
9) Why Re-Scan ? What is the advantage of Re-Scan ?
  Scanning the already scanned module is called Re-Scan .
  If we have  already scanned  web page but there is some change and  two new fiels are added which we need to incorporate in same test case.
  so to get these 2 fields in already scanned module we need to re-scan.
  
10 ) what are the dynamic expression  avilable in TOSCA ?
      Random numbers {RND[<Number of Digits>]}
      Random Text    {RANDOMTEXT[<Number of Characters>]}
      
      Date Expressions : {DATE} -----> {DATE[][][ddMMyyyy]}
      Add 3 months and substract 1 day
      The expression +3M-1d means that three months are added to the base date and one day is deducted-----> {DATE[23.05.2016][+3M-1d][]} -- DD.MM.YYYY
     
      Time Expressions : {TIME} ---->hh:mm ( hour and minute)
      
11) What is Library parameter where we can define them ?
    Library paramter is nothing but business paramter which is used to paas the dynamic values in test step blocks.
    e.g library is created for Username and password 
       if we want to use Different username and password in differnt Tcs so at that time we can do by using business paramter.
       
       
12) String operation in tosca ?
    String opeartion like counting the character , Replacing of one word by other word ,verfying format of number .
    For these string operation we need AidPack downloaded and imported in the project.

13 ) How will you validate the pdf ?Can we compare pdf using tosca ?
     Tricentis has Aidpack engine which provides standard module TC pdf compare to compare pdf files.
     we can provide base file path and new file path.
     
     
14 ) Differnece between executing the test case from scratch book and Execution list ?
     ScratchBook : When we construct the testcase at that time we execute testcase by scratchbook ( Here, deatiled logs are not saved).
     Execution list : Once the testcase is ready then we execute from executionlist ( Here , detailed logs are saved).
     Jenkin execute the test cases from execution list.
     
15 ) Explain Synchronization in TOSCA ? where is setting for synchronization ?
     Synchronization means matching the application speed with automation tool speed.
     Synchronization setting is done under setting ---> TBOX ---> synchronization
     
16 ) How data driven testing is achieved in TOSCA testsuite ?
     Data driven testing in TOSCA Testsuite can be achieved by using testsheet in TestCaseDesign Section.
     we create an attribute and various instances for each attribute and finally generate the instances.
     create a template from our testcase and then attached testdata sheet to template and then instantiate the template.

17)  what is template in TOSCA?
     TestCase templates form the basis of our Tosca BI tests.When we Right cick on testcase get option convert to template .
     Drag appropriate Testdata sheet and drop on testcase template.
     Use XL paths to manually assign the TestSheet values to the required TestStepValue.
     Instantiate the Testcase Template.
     
18 ) What is TestData Mangement ( tdm) ?
      Test Data Mangement is used to manage the test data for execution.
      TOSCA uses same same database as common reposiotory does for test data management for DB2,oracle ,MS SQl server repository.
      
      
19 ) What is TQL and why it is used ?
      Tosca query language it is used to query in our tosca project to find anything which we want.
      There are various functions and expression are avilable to write TQL.
      
20 ) How will you fetch data from Excel using Tosca?
     There are two ways.
     1) To import data from an external source, we can use Excel Engine.
     2) For a single test scenario ,Tosca provides a feature of TemplateInstances to create any number of test cases from our  data set 
        to import our excel's data and embed it in Test Case steps.
    
21 ) Explain how you can use multiple browsers within the same test case?
      Using buffers,change the Test Configuration Parameters at Run-Time by the following steps.
     1. Change the Value of Test Configuration Parameter to {B[Browser]} or any other Buffer Name we prefer
     2. Use a TBOX Set Buffer to specify which Browser needs to be used.
     
22)  What are the steps to perform Tosca Connect - HP ALM Tosca Integration?
     Installation of REST API
     Installation of Tasktop with the License Key
     TestCases sync from TOSCA to Test Plan Module in HP ALM
     Execution List sync from TOSCA to Test Lab Module in HP ALM
     Execution Entry and Latest Test Result sync from TOSCA to Test Lab/Test Runs Modules in HP ALM.
     

23 ) Which looping statements are available in Tosca?
     To run TestSteps with branches, Tosca supports IF, DO and WHILE Statements.
     
24 ) What does Tosca CI do? And how can it be implemented?
    Tosca continuous integration triggers the automated Tosca TestCases without user input.It helps to reduce testing time for continuous integration and delivery.
    Tosca CI can be implemented by either of the below-mentioned ways:
    1) Run the test execution via Remote Service through a separate execution workspace.
    2) Use Tosca Continuous Integration together with Tosca Distributed Execution. 
    
25 ) What is the advantage of linking test cases to requirements in Tosca Testsuite?
     To keep track of the requirements we link the test cases in Tosca.
     This lets us know how many requirements are covered, how many more are needed and also to check for how many requirements the test cases are passed successfully. 
     This actually helps us to give a high-level picture of requirement coverage.
     
26 ) when to use MATH  and when to use CALC  function 
     To perform calculations in our tests,  we use the expressions CALC or MATH.
      Use CALC if you have Microsoft® Excel installed.
      Use MATH if we do not have Microsoft® Excel installed.
      
       The syntax {CALC[2x2+5]} returns the result 9
       The syntax {MATH[2x2+5]} returns the result 9.
       
27 ) Explain Recovery and clean up Scenarios ?
     Recovery scenario is set of test steps to ensure next test case execution after the failed test case run properly.
     In Recovery scenario we can re-try at TestCase level ,Teststep level and Teststep Value level.
     There is 2 condition where we can recover scenario on Dialog failure and on Verification failure.
     Setting --->TBOX---> Recovery 
     
     
28) Difference between Buffer and XBuffer ?
    Buffers are temporarily saved  to  the section Buffer of the Settings dialog underSettings-->engine
    Action Mode will be Buffer.{B[Buffername]}
    
    XBuffer :The XBuffer allows us to read dynamic values of a string and to buffer them using the action mode verify.
    {XB[Buffername]}
    
    TC Partial Buffer  : This Module allows parts of a value to be either written to a buffer variable or to be verified.
    Action mode we use input and verify for TC partial buffer.
    
29 ) What is Test Configuration  Paramter?
     It is used to set some specific value to number of test cases .
     example : Url , Browser,Username and Password.
     It can be created at root level using configuration option and can be drag and drop at whichever the level it's needed.
     
30 )  What is Business Parameter ? Explain a scenario for usage ?
      It is used to paas dynamic Values in test step block.
      Creation --> Right click on Resusable test Block -->select Create business Parameter container from context menu.
      For few test cases if we want to use different username and password in that case we use Business Parameter.
      
31 ) Can you list component of TOSCA-Server?
     TOSCA Administration console ,Tosca Event monitor ,Tosca distibution server,Tosca License administration.
     
32) What is tricentis cloud ?
    Tricentis Cloud services enable the users to access and update the common repository in the cloud.

33 )How to handle the scrolling behaviour in Tosca?
    Jump to module attribute of Test Case and then select  Steering paramter ( Green Box) 
    named "ScrollingBehavior" with the value "Bottom" for the attribute.Please find screenshot below for  reference
   
        
        Name                                        Value 
        ScrollingBehavior                           Bottom
        ScrollingBehavior                            Top 
        ScrollingBehavior                           Centre
        
34)    what are the type of waits in tosca?
       Static wait( TBox Wait )  : Static wait is done with module TBox wait and test execution is paused for time specified.
       Dynamic Wait( WaitOn)     : For a dynamic wait we use the action mode WaitOn .waitOn it pauses the execution of Testcase until respective Control provides
                                   the value or  property  specified in value field.
                                   
35 ) Difference between Do and WHILE statement in Tosca ?
      Do loop    - It executes the body first and then verify for condition.
      While loop - First verify the condition and then execute body if required.
      
36) Control groups in tosca ?
     Link, button and radio button controls are grouped in Tosca.
    Link         ActionMode            Value                 Description
                  Input              <control name>          Select a link
                  Verify             <control name>          Verifies whether the specified link exists (Exists)
    
    Button        Input               <control name>          Select a button       
                  Verify              <control name>          Verifies whether the specified button exists (Exists)
                  WaitOn              <control name>          Waits until the specified button exists (Exists)

   RadioButton    Input               <control name>           Select a RadioButton
                  Verify              <control name>           Verifies whether the specified RadioButton is selected (Selected)
                  
   

37 ) what are the steering parameter in tosca ?
38) what is firevent in tosca ?
39 ) Excel file read all modules name which is present in tosca?
40 ) Repetition in tosca ?
41 ) how to execut same test case 2 times in tosca ?



      















    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

      
     
     
      
       
  
       
                      
    


    




































      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      



































     
     































    
    
  
    

     



































     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     


























       




































































     
     
     



































































































      
      
      






























     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
































     
     
    
































































      
      
      
     
      
      
      
      
      
      
      

  
  
  
  
  


































    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
